# Research Experiences
_Most Recent First_

1. **Experimental Control of Superconducting Qubits**

[Poster](https://github.com/EeshGupta/eeshgupta.github.io/blob/main/pages/research_works/Poster_for_Rutgers_CMT_Conference%20(12).pdf)

One promising implementation of quantum computers is a high-coherence 3D multimode cavity coupled to a
nonlinear circuit such as the transmon. A key limitation of this architecture are the ancillary transmon
qubits which limit the fidelity of gate operations and lower cavity coherence via the reverse Purcell effect.
In order to mitigate these errors, several pulse schemes have been proposed which use large oscillator displacements
to achieve an effective conditional displacement interaction [Campagne-Ibarcq et al., 2020, Eickbusch et al., 2021].
Such a displacement acts as a “switch” to temporarily turn on the oscillator’s interaction strength with the qubit. 
In doing so, this technique maintains gate speeds while mitigating ancilla errors by weakening the bare dispersive
interaction. 

In this work, we extend these protocols for control of multiple cavities weakly coupled to an ancilla qubit.
In the multimode context, these gates increase the contrast between the rates of gate operations with the 
target modes, and those of spurious coherent errors from photons in non-target modes. We present multimode 
generalizations of echoed-conditional displacements sequences, where we use to generate entangling gates 
between multiple cavity modes with sequential conditional displacements of individual modes. We also 
produce multimode gates from related pulses generated by numerical optimization [circle GRAPE], and 
from those involving red and blue cavity sideband drives detuned from the cavity resonance by the qubit
Rabi frequency. Our work presents a pathway for potentially implementing cross-talk resilient multimode
processors that are also more immune to ancilla errors. 


2. **Accelerating the Quantum Approximate Optimization Algorithm**

[Goldwater Essay](https://github.com/EeshGupta/eeshgupta.github.io/blob/main/pages/research_works/2021_Research_Essay_SULI%20(2).pdf),
[Research Paper](https://github.com/EeshGupta/eeshgupta.github.io/blob/main/pages/research_works/2021_Research_Essay_SULI%20(2).pdf),
[APS March Meeting 2022 Presentation](https://github.com/EeshGupta/eeshgupta.github.io/blob/main/pages/research_works/aps%20final%20recording.mp4)

Quantum computers employ intrinsic properties of quantum mechanics to solve problems deemed intractable by our current 
classical computers. While general purpose quantum computers are more than a decade away, there is still a great interest
in solving “toy” problems on today’s noisy quantum devices to measure their capabilities. In particular, computer 
scientists at Argonne are improving the performance of the Quantum Approximate Optimization Algorithm (QAOA) algorithm 
in solving the graph optimization problem MAXCUT which has applications in machine learning and electronics. Combining 
a classical computer which guesses parameters and a quantum device that computes the associated cut, QAOA runs as a
quantum guessing game to find the maximum cut for a graph. To reduce the number of guesses made by the classical computer, 
Galda et al. proposed improving the quality of initial guesses for a graph by reusing optimal parameters of similar graphs.
However, computing the similarity between two graphs is also expensive in time. Therefore, we created a cheaper metric
that predicts similarity between two graphs by exploiting their local properties. While the metric failed for most 
graph pairs, the subsequent analysis helped us create a more direct and efficient scheme to accelerate the guessing game.
Thus, our findings present a pathway to use local properties of graph instances to improve the performance of hybrid 
quantum-classical algorithms. Over the course of my appointment, I learned how to be persistent in analyzing problems 
and well as learned the rigors of drafting a good research paper. These efforts also support the Department of Energy 
Office of Science’s mission for Quantum Information Science in advancing quantum algorithms to do what was previously
imaginable.

3. **Quantum Error Mitigation**

[Poster](https://github.com/EeshGupta/eeshgupta.github.io/blob/main/pages/research_works/eeshguptaposter%20(1).pdf),
[Paper](https://github.com/EeshGupta/eeshgupta.github.io/blob/main/pages/research_works/Zero%20Noise%20Extrapolation%20Paper%20FALL%202020%20(4).pdf)

Some of the most promising near-term applications of quantum computers lie in solving classically intractable problems
in chemistry, leading to potential breakthroughs in disease prevention. However, quantum computers of today are both
highly susceptible to errors and limited by the number of qubits to correct them. For the near term, scientists are 
exploring error mitigation techniques to reduce the effects of quantum computational noise. One such popular technique
is Richardson extrapolation which approximates the ‘zero error’ solution by deliberately increasing the noise in the 
device. Driven to do better, we compare the Richardson extrapolation method with a much simpler method of polynomial 
fitting to calculate the ground state energy of the hydrogen molecule. To test these methods, we perform experiments
on quantum computers available through IBM cloud. Our results show that polynomial fitting far outperforms the 
Richardson technique in terms of both precision and accuracy. These schemes, however, are not sufficient for obtaining
the needed chemical accuracy. Thus, we hope to explore other error mitigation techniques to further improve quantum
computations and advance this promising field.
